Networks reliably carry loads of data around the globe
allowing for the delivery of content and applications with high availability.
The network is the foundation of your infrastructure.
Without it, you wouldn't be able to do your day-to-day job,
things like check your email,
or even access services on your smartphone.
Cloud networking includes network architecture,
network connectivity, application delivery,
global performance and delivery.
Let's look more closely at network connectivity.
Network connectivity includes services
that offer reliable and cost-effective ways to route end-users to Internet applications.
Let's explore a real-world example.
Every computer on the internet has an address,
called an IP address or Internet protocol address,
which is a long string of numbers.
It's hard for a person to easily remember the long string of numbers to access a website.
For example, this is Google's IP address.
If I wanted to conduct a Google search,
although it would work,
I'm not going to enter Google's IP address in my web browser,
Instead, I will enter the user friendly name, which is www.google.com.
When I enter www.google.com behind the scenes,
there is a DNS,
or Domain Name System resolver that ask
a domain authority for the IP address that maps to google.com.
If you're not familiar with the term domain authority,
it is the service,
the domain name google.com was registered with.
You are then routed to that address,
and the Google website displays in your web browser.
DNS is one of the foundational networking services that makes the Internet work.